#summary Read me first
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Support,Featured

*JavaPNS* is a Java Library used to send [http://developer.apple.com/iphone/library/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/CommunicatingWIthAPS/CommunicatingWIthAPS.html Apple Notification Service] (APNS) messages to iOS Apps

This Java library provides a way to convert your notification to the “raw” (binary) data expected by the APNS and send using an asynchronous streaming socket over TLS (or SSL).

==Index==
  * [Documentation Documentation]
  * [GeneralRequirements Requirements]
  * [PreparingCertificates Preparing certificates]

  * [Troubleshooting Troubleshooting, solving issues, etc.]
  * [CommandLineTools Command line test tools]
  * [Sandbox Useful information about the sandbox]

You may establish multiple, parallel connections to the same gateway or to multiple gateway instances. But it is suggested that you retain your connection if sending many notifications. Although there is no hard limit to the number of gateway connections a provider can make, you should limit them to no more than 15. (APNs may consider connections that are rapidly and repeatedly established and torn down as a denial-of-service attack.) 

<br />

==Sending Push Notifications==
  * [PushNotificationBasic Basic push notification]
  * [PushNotificationAdvanced Advanced push notification]

You should regularly connect with the feedback service and fetch the current list of those devices that have reported failed-delivery attempts. The Java library parses the "raw" (binary) data-stream from the server and returns a list of iPhone tokens. The feedback server clears this list when it is sent... so once fetched, it cannot be re-fetched.

<br />

==Getting device tokens where the notification delivery has failed==
  * [FeedbackService Feedback service]

<br />

==Upgrading from javapns 1.x==
javapns 2.0 has been completely reengineered to be more flexible and adapt to a larger number of projects.  Consequently, many classes have been refactored, replaced by interfaces where possible, and other changes.  Please take some time to look at the javadoc for version 2.0 so you can make the necessary changes in your existing code.  If your use of javapns is somewhat basic, you should look at the new `javapns.Push` class which is the new preferred and much simpler way of quickly pushing notifications.