#summary Useful notes about the Sandbox
#labels Phase-Support

= Useful notes about Apple's sandbox =

 # *Sandbox-specific certificate*: the SSL certificate required for communicating with the sandbox servers is NOT THE SAME as the one required for the production servers.<br /><br />
 # *Delays involving the Feedback Service*: since Apple does not specify precisely when a device will end up on the Feedback list _(ie how many failed push must occur or how much time must elapse before it is marked as inactive)_, you should not expect your device to always be listed as soon as you uninstall your application from the device.  Remember that the whole purpose of having an asynchronous Feedback Service to detect inactive devices is because Apple has a lot of factors to consider before listing a device as inactive...  If a notification cannot be pushed, it can be because of network issues, device issues, bad reception issues, configuration issues, etc.  but if any of these problems arise, it does not necessarily mean that the device is permanently inactive...  it may simply be a temporary situation.<br /><br />
 # *Sandbox Feedback Service not listing device after app is removed*:  iOS needs to inform the feedback service when a notification-enabled application is uninstalled, so that the device can be listed instantly by that service. HOWEVER, from various bits and pieces of information around the web, we learn that apparently there needs to remain at least one other notification-enabled application on the device so that iOS can inform the Feedback Service of the uninstallation. If the application you uninstall was the last notification-enabled app, iOS apparently cannot tell the Feedback Service about the uninstallation, and your device doesn't get listed right away (although it most likely will after some number of failed pushes and some time has elapsed).  This information suggests that not only do you need to have at least one other notification-enabled app on your device so that your own app uninstallation will be broadcasted, but that other app needs to be configured to talk to the SAME Feedback service (sandbox or production).<br /><br />
 # *Moving from sandbox to production*: once your notifications are working with the sandbox, you will naturally switch to Apple's production server.  A couple of things to watch out for when transitioning though:  
  * device tokens are not the same for sandbox and production, you need new tokens when moving to production
  * certificates are also different (see [http://developer.apple.com/library/ios/#documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/ProvisioningDevelopment/ProvisioningDevelopment.html Certificates])
  * some users have reported issues which might be solved by the procedure described on [http://www.techjini.com/blog/2009/10/22/how-we-fixed-production-push-notifications-not-working-while-sandbox-works/ this page]
